In this segment we're going to keep on
looking at the inverted index and see how
it's an efficient data structure for
doing query operations in an IR system.
And in particular we'll step through
in detail how you can perform
a common kind of query,
an and query for two terms.
So starting off now we'll look at
the details of query processing, and
then we'll have a later segment where
I'll talk even in more detail about
the kind of queries we can process.
So suppose we want to process a query.
So suppose our query is Brutus and Caesar.
Well, let me even do
a simpler example than that.
Suppose the very first kind of query we
wanted to look at is just a query for
Brutus.
Well, how to do that is
totally straightforward.
What we do is locate
Brutus in the Dictionary,
and then we return its postings list
that we looked up and say okay, this is
the set of documents where Brutus occurs,
and we don't need to do anything else.
But now let's go to that
fraction more complicated case.
Well then, we're going to locate,
for Brutus and Caesar, we're
going to locate both the words in the
Dictionary, look up their postings lists.
And what we'd like to do is then work out
what are the documents that
contain both Brutus and Caesar?
And doing the putting them together is
extently referred to as merging
the two postings lists.
Now that term can actually be misleading
because what we're doing with an and
query is we're actually intersecting
the two sets of documents to find
the documents that in
which both words occur.
Whereas merging suggests
doing some kind of
putting them together
in a union operation.
But the term merge is used
actually in both cases.
So the merge algorithm family refers to
a family of algorithms where you can step
through a pair of sorted lists and
do various boolean operations on that.
Let's look in concrete
detail how that happens.
Okay, so the way we do a merge operation
to do Brutus and Caesar is like this.
We start with the pointer which
points at the head of both lists.
And what we're going to be
wanting to do is then work out
what's in the intersection.
So the way we do that is we ask,
are these two pointers pointing
at the same and equal doc ID?
And the answer is no.
And so what we do is then advance
the pointer that has a smaller doc ID.
So now our two pointers are like this and
we say,
are the two pointers pointing
at the same document ID?
And here the answer is yes.
So we put that into a result list.
And then if we've done that,
we can then advance both pointers.
We now say are these pointers both
pointing at the same doc ID, no.
Is the first list greater, first,
the thing pointed to by the first
list pointer greater than the thing
pointed to by the second list pointer?
No, so we advance the bottom pointer one.
Then we say, is the doc ID pointed
at by the two pointers equal?
No, and so
again we advance the smaller one.
Equal?
No.
Advance the smaller one.
At this point, they're again both
pointing at the same doc ID, so
we add that to our result set and
we advance both pointers.
Are they the same?
No.
What we do is advance the small one.
Are they the same?
No, we advance the smaller one.
Same?
No, advance the smaller one.
No, and at this point when we try and
advance the smaller one,
one of our lists are exhausted.
And so then there can be no other items
in the intersection, and so we can stop.
And so this is our return document set,
documents 2 and
8 contain both Brutus and Caesar.
So I hope we went through
that carefully enough.
That you can see that if the list lengths,
x and
y, then this merge algorithm
takes O(x+y) time,
that it's linear in the sum of
the lengths of the two postings lists.
And you should also have seen what's
crucial to make this operation linear,
and what's crucial to making
it linear is the fact that
these postings lists were
sorted in order of document ID.
Precisely because of that
we could do a linear scan
through the two postings lists.
Where if that hadn't been the case then
it would have turned into an n-squared
algorithm.
Okay, here's the postings
lists intersection algorithm,
one more time it's a real algorithm, but
hopefully you can see it's doing
exactly the same as what I was by hand.
So we start here with
the answer set as zero, and
then we're going to be doing this
while loop while the postings lists
of both not equal to NIL,
because as soon as one's NIL, we can stop.
So that's the and operation.
Okay so then at each step what
we do is ask whether the two,
the document ID of the two pointers,
is the same?
If so, we add it to our answer.
And if they are the same,
we can advance both pointers.
And if not,
we work out which docID Is smaller,
and then we advance that pointer,
so either this one or this one.
And that was exactly what I was doing and
then when as soon as
one of the document lists runs
out we can return our answer set.
Okay, I hope that made sense and you now
feel like you could write your own code
to do the intersection of postings
list using the merge algorithm.